How many tests did you give per semester in that course?
In statistics I gave four tests and a final exam.
By the way, I always gave final exam in all courses.
Be it graduate or undergraduate.
Right.
In history, we talk about whether or not it was a discussion question or an objective.
What kinds of test questions would be in that?
Well, I used, not in that statistics course.
In the statistics course, I used calculations a lot.
But of course, I was interested in concepts.
But in order for them to do the calculation, they had to have the concept too.
So I had that figured out.
But in most of my courses other than that, I did rely a lot on multiple choice questions and similar type objective questions.
I relied probably more than the average on those.
And also I might mention Haskell, that from the very first day I started here, I felt under a, see my,
My special field was test construction.
I was considered an expert in test construction.
Well, that kind of, you're laying it on the line in your teaching, you know.
I knew how to make tests.
I didn't always make tests the best that I knew how to make them, but I knew my students would be
critical of my, you know, here's this guy, he's a test expert, now look at this test question he gave me.
So I felt quite a bit of pressure to, in my test making activities.
And I always considered the construction of tests for a course to be a large high percentage of my preparation for the course.
I would spend a very high amount of the total amount of time in preparation in preparing the test.
And I didn't use old tests, at least not very much.
I would modify them or make them new.
I did reuse certain questions, of course.
made it a point, while I took very seriously my testing, I considered that one of the most important parts of teaching.
Now, I had a guideline.
I'd always try to return the graded test within a week after I'd given it.
Did you have any?
Well, I was a little better than you, Haskell.
I tried the next meeting.
Wow.
That is good.
But you can only do that with the objective test that I was using.
That was one reason I did use them.
If I had been giving essay tests, and of course occasionally I did, probably would have had a lot harder time doing that.
But I agree with you.
I think it is very important to give quick feedback on the test.
And I believe then and I believe now that testing is a very important part of the educational process.
I think the students learn from taking the test, from preparing for the test, and from reviewing the test when they get it back.
And I think, you know,
you're losing a large percent of the educational process if you leave out or don't give much attention to or much effort to the testing.
What about some anecdotes about student goofiness or humor or jokes or anything?
Well, I once taught a student that was a
graduate, she was graduating, I think she was a master's student, and she was enrolled in the statistics course.
And I said, well, why didn't you take this earlier?
You could have used it in a tool in a lot of your other courses.
It could have helped you done your term papers or your experiments or your survey.
Why didn't you take it sooner?
And she said, well, Dr. Barker, I thought I might die first by putting it off.
Did anybody try to give you any goofy excuse as to why they weren't able to get something done on time or why they were absent from the test?
Well, you know that old one about a
a dog getting it.
I actually did receive that, getting an assignment.
The dog chewed it up.
Oh, really?
I've heard that given as a joke, but I actually did receive that.
A student came in and told you that?
And I said, well, I'll give you another week to do it.
Give you and your dog another week.
Did any grandparent die?
Repeatedly.
No, I can't claim to have had those stories very much.
And no girl ever came in to flirt, to try to get special or anything?
I would say that wasn't a problem.
I wouldn't say that it, I never had that, I never, you know, I never let it get that far.
So I have had them come up real close, you know, closer than necessary to, you know, real close to talk.
And I said, well, get back a little bit.
I can hear you okay.
I know I'm old, but I can still hear it.
Back on tape.
Did you, what about sleeping in class or smoking in class?
Did you have any guidelines for classroom decorum?
You know, I never said much about classroom decorum, but I believe they understood, you know, that I wanted them to have good decorum.
Nobody ever smoked.
Some did go to sleep.
I don't believe this was a very kind thing to do, but I used to, well, in my larger classes where I have maybe about 100, I would
they would have seat numbers.
And I would sometimes, just kind of as a joke, I would call them by 4-6, you know, or 3-2, third row, second.
They got a kind of a kick out of that.
You know, I would just, instead of calling by name, I'd call them by their seat number.
But sometimes, a few times, I have said, 3-4, would you please tap 3-3?
That was a little bit cruel.
That student apologized for going to sleep.
I really did not intend to embarrass any student.
That was really a strong part of my philosophy.
But once in a while, I made that mistake.
If they went to sleep, I would kind of
Maybe I would say something a little louder or be a little livelier or look in their direction.
Well, of course, sometimes their eyes were shut.
But I would look in the direction and be loud.
And usually that would wake them up.
But I tried to get them awake but not to call attention to it.
And that usually worked.
I got some real tired people at those 5 o'clock classes, too.
Some of them had been working all day.
Now, what was different about teaching a three-hour night course and teaching day courses?
Well, that's something, yeah.
Looking back, I don't see how I did it.
But I gave them about a 10 to 15 minute, usually about a 10 minute recess sometime in there.
They do have to go to the bathroom.
But even then, I don't get much of a recess, because they're up asking me questions and like that, or going over business, classroom business.
So it is really a strenuous effort to teach one of those three hour classes, if you take it seriously.
All right, and aren't they a little tired also?
Yes, they are.
But I feel that I did get good results.
I feel like I got real good results.
You do have the advantage that if you're going to get three hours of instruction in a week, if they have to come three different times,
you've got to get started three different times.
That always takes a few minutes.
And maybe you've got to check attendance.
You've got to greet them.
And there's a certain amount of just things you have to do, whether you're going to be meeting for 50 minutes or for three hours.
And by having it all in one three-hour block, you gain some advantage that way.
I always was teaching thanks to my department head.
I was teaching things that I was well prepared to teach and didn't have, I never ran out of soap, you know.
I always had plenty of material.
And I always made a very deliberate effort to get up for teaching.
You know, I might be laid back the rest of the day
But when I was in front of my class, I was deliberately trying to be lively and enthusiastic, make them think I thought the subject was worth learning.
And I did joke some.
I didn't consider that a waste of time, especially when you've got that much time.
And, but I try to maintain a light touch.
Not necessarily any jokes with gag lines, but just a light touch.
And I feel real good about that part of my career.
I know it was a difficult thing to do, and I know I didn't do it perfectly, but I
That's one of the things I feel best about, the way I manage.
And it takes some physical stamina to do it.
And I always kept in pretty good shape, you know.
I worked out at the gym every day.
And I believe that the time I wasted in the gym wasn't wasted.
Now, how did you get started doing that?
Had you been a gym user before coming here?
No, I had not.
That was something new for me.
This was about a year after I'd been here, about a year.
My family was already here, but about a year after I'd been here.
The health and physical education department announced a physical fitness program for faculty.
And the ones that organized it were Carl Landis and Charles McCandless.
He was in the intramural department, and Charles was, and Carl was in the health and PE department.
So they had a group of faculty come over there.
I guess there must have been about 15 to 20 of us.
Len Hanna was one of them, first day.
That's where I met him.
And at first we would just do calisthenics directed by Charles and Carl.
And then at the end of the period,
I guess we spent over an hour, a little over an hour there, about an hour.
We would do some sport.
We'd do something different every day for just a few minutes.
And then one of them we tried was badminton.
And that became our favorite.
And after a while, we just did that exclusively, dropped the calisthenics even, and became a badminton group.
All right, back to teaching.
The graduate seminar, how was that?
You wouldn't be standing up.
You wouldn't be walking around described doing that.
And what would have been the seminars that you did most often?
Sometimes I would, by the way, in addition to the introductory course in statistics, I taught less often.
I taught an intermediate course, which gave a full year course in statistics, which is a pretty good course.
And then I gave occasionally some advanced topics as seminars.
Sometimes they were only one semester hour, one hour a week.
And sometimes, often, very often, I would give seminars on how to get the computer to work, how to get
introduce your statistical problems to the computer and how to read the output.
And once in a while I would have other topics, mostly having to do with techniques of research.
But those were my topics.
You're right.
I didn't usually stand at those.
It wasn't unusual for me to stand up, and sometimes I would use a chalkboard.
Did you have an outline of?
Yes, I'd had notes I'd go by.
And I usually didn't have very full notes.
I just kind of had an outline.
And I encouraged talk from those in the class.
I probably didn't do 50% of the talking in most of those.
Sometimes I did, but I would encourage participation
group.
And I would even do that in some of the undergraduate courses too if they were smaller ones.
Now for those advanced, for those graduate courses, you said you graded on the curve, the undergraduate.
What was your grading technique for those graduate, those seminars and so forth?
Well I would say still grading on a curve.
I would start out
I would have numerical grades for them.
And then I would place these along a continuum, and I would generally say I believe the person
will make a B.
If their grades are worse than that, they won't get their B.
If they're better than that, they'll get an A.
And a lot of them did, you know, a whole lot of them did.
Not too many of them did make, I considered C practically failing.
Sure, sure.
And so I nearly always assigned B's or A's.
And I maintained the stance
that I'm going to assign a grade of B unless the numbers I have there and the work that they've done convinces me that they could get an A.
And I wasn't too hard to convince.
I could be fairly easily convinced of that.
Did you ever have any outside attempt to influence a grade that you
gave someone?
A parent, an administrator, a former student, a legislator, a phone call?
Did anybody try to tell you to?
I'm trying to think, Haskell.
I don't believe so.
Now, I have had students themselves, you know, argue about whether they should have got a different grade and... What were some of their explanations?
They really didn't hold much water.
Sometimes it was just how bad they needed it.
Oh, okay.
Now, and I'm assuming you never had any kind of a sad event or a tragic event relative to a student in class or anything?
I did have, oh, at one time we had that English proficiency test that everybody has to take, I think it's when they're a junior, and I was sometimes assigned to administer that.
And one time a student, and I knew him, he had been a student of mine too, of course this was not my class, but he fainted.
Let me see.
Why did that happen?
He came to, and so we never did get him to the doctor or anything.
I advised him to.
Maybe go by the crack shack.
Nothing worse than feigning.
Feigning, yeah.
But he came too hard.
But I didn't have no way of knowing that at first, you know, so I was kind of shocked by that when he collapsed.
And you never had, in terms of grades or anything else, you never had the department head or the dean ask you to explain to them what had happened in a certain situation?
No, I hadn't.
Now, I have discussed my grading with every one of my supervisors.
And I guess I was kind of considered the expert, in a way, on that, just due to the particular field I happened to be in.
because evaluation and testing and that kind of thing was my field.
But I realized that a lot of time the grading is a certain degree of arbitrariness in it.
And when some students said it's kind of arbitrary that I got this grade rather than another, I couldn't really say no.
I couldn't deny that.
And but I would say I just have to go by my judgment about it.
And so I always did feel that there was some degree of arbitrariness about the assignment of grades.
But I tried to make it as objective as I could.
But I never really believed that it, even though I maybe went farther than most people to do that, that I ever
Was completely correct about that.
No phone calls in the middle of the night, no notes left on your car or slid under your door.
Not about grades, but I had lots of people call me, how do you get this computer to take this data?
I've had that at all times of the night.
Is that right?
Right.
One man that called me like that was Barry Thompson when he was a student.
Did you, you weren't his thesis advisor or anything like that?
No, I wasn't.
I was on the committee for Shelby Metcalf too.
Were you?
We carried, back in those days, the only way to input data to a computer was on cords.
And a lot of my, the muscles I have come from carrying those huge stacks of, but I remember Shelby Metcalf had a huge stack of cords that I shepherded him around on.
analysis of his data.
I was the graduate council representative on his PhD, I believe.
Didn't he do a doctoral degree?
Yes, he did.
I was on that committee too.
On the factors that affect crowd behavior.
Right.
You and I were both on that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'd forgotten that, but that would be right.
I don't remember anybody calling him Dr. Metcalf after that.
Yeah.
Let's see, who are some other students that you proudly remember?
Well, I loved a lot of my students.
I really was fond of students.
That was my thing that I was
And I took the students' side sometimes in disputes.
Not a specific student, but you know, if somebody would say, well... Over such topics as what?
Oh, these students aren't any good these days.
Well I say, yes they are, we've just got to teach them.
Things like, I would defend students.
And also when
they would be thinking, well, let's make it harder for students, you know, make it tougher for them.
I'd say, no, it's tough enough for students as it is.
I was kind of much on the side of the student in disputes of that kind.
Well, let me see.
O.B.
Clifton was a good student.
You know him, I imagine.
And let's see.
I'm kind of blocking on that.
That is a very good question, and I should be able to name a lot.
Are there some, you recall, that are in high places now?
Yeah.
I'm trying to think of that lady from San Antonio whose husband was on the board of directors, Spanish-American.
Raul Fernandez?
Yes.
His wife was a student of mine that I really liked, had a good relationship with her, and came to, I never taught him, but I met him through her.
And they put me up for a teaching award given by San Antonio students that had been in my classes one time.
They, I think, were involved a lot in that.
Well, let's move on.
The department grows, and who was the first department head?
The first was Grady Parker.
No, once we had educational psychology, it was Art Roach.
And then who?
Chris Borman, I think, followed him, and then Mike Ash.
And once it gets into real high gear,
about how many masters and doctoral students a year were you all producing?
Dozens?
I think we took in, in the counseling psychology program alone, about 15 to 20 every year.
And, you know, that can run four years, three or four years.
Then in school psychology, we'd usually take about 10, I guess.
So that's 20 and 10.
That's 30.
And we would have just a very few in development and measurement and things like that.
So we would take in, I guess, maybe about 30 a year.
And who were some of the most notable colleagues in the 80s, 90s?
Well, of course, going back further than that, and I've already mentioned Walter Vorable, number one, and of course Paul Hensling was really important to me and helped me, you know, and was a good department head.
Department head, yeah.
But then later, and of course both periods, some of these, Lenny's hope never considered him necessarily the model for a teacher that Varvel was, but he was a real good friend and a real steady, you know, good judgment.
And I just admired him immensely and still do, and we still get together.
He's the only one on the faculty that I still get with regularly.
Jack Campbell.
He wasn't in my department, but I consider him an outstanding colleague.
And I don't know how to say this exactly, but I was a little bit, not outwardly, but I was
a little bit critical of a lot of my colleagues and their teaching.
Not necessarily in my own department, but in the university.
I thought some of them
didn't devote as much time as they should to preparation and instruction, and didn't take students as seriously as they should, and particularly didn't do as good a job of testing.
Of course, I know I'm coming from a biased point of view on that, because of that being my field of expertise.
I don't know if it's appropriate for me to say that, but I just was always thinking I don't think my colleagues are doing as well as they could by the students.
And I don't think that I think at A&M it might have been better than some other places.
This is a criticism I have of higher education after many years in it.
Am I the only one who thinks there may have been a generational change that you and I thought we were to be here all day, whereas the younger, newer go to campus, meet class, keep a brief posted office hour, and then gone?
Right.
I thought we were to be either in our office or in the library doing research, one or the other.
That's what I thought.
Either there or on the badminton court.
Dean Hubert becomes chancellor in the late 70s, and he is replaced by Dean Corrigan, Dean Dean.
Describe him as the dean of education.
Now I guess Phil Limbacher came in there for a while in between, didn't he?
Yes, yes, as the interim.
Right.
Of course, I'd known Phil real well before and worked with him, and he's a favorite of mine, too.
I liked him, Phil, a lot and still do.
And I still see him once in a while.
Dean Corrigan, same thing.
I hadn't known him before, but we hit it off pretty well.
We didn't have much occasion to be together, but when we were, we were.
Describe how he deemed, how did he, what was his manner and style?
Well, I don't know what to say about that.
I thought he was...
He was intense.
He was real active.
He was real enthusiastic.
But as far as details are concerned, he just left it to the faculty.
He didn't tell me how to teach statistics.
And I didn't tell him how to be a dean either.
But I didn't notice a whole lot of difference between him and Limbacher, the way their style was.
And then I also was under the dean that followed him, Jane
Connolly?
No.
They were both Janes.
That's strange that I would block on her name.
See, that's all I've got.
I don't describe her as dean.
As Carl was saying, I didn't notice much difference between any of the deans I had, with the possible exception of Dean Hubert.
We discussed that.
But even with him, they seemed to be very good about not managing
They allowed the teaching to be done by the professors.
Now you all moved over to the Harrington Building.
Right.
And where were you all officed and where did your classes meet normally?
Well, my office was on the eighth floor.
It's nine floors altogether.
I was on the eighth floor in the corner and stayed there the whole time until I retired.
And it was convenient to the main office, you know, where the secretarial administrative staff was.
And it was right next door to the department head's office.
And on the other side of me was Bob Riley.
And we were very proud of our new facilities.
They were very nice.
There weren't any classrooms or hardly any classrooms in that building.
We sometimes had a small seminar in there, maybe a very small class, graduate class.
But we had that classroom building adjacent to Harrington.
We had Tall Harrington and Short Harrington.
And I always thought it was so odd that we would call a building Short Harrington when it was named after a man that was over six feet tall.
But I taught all over the campus then.
That was not adequate for our classes at all.
And we didn't have exclusive use of that for our classes by any means.
Many other departments were teaching in there.
So I went everywhere.
You can name a building on this side of the tracks that I didn't teach in.
Has Texas A&M done a good job in its physical planning of classrooms and parking and streets and so forth?
See, I think they haven't.
Well.
In hindsight.
It's kind of hard to imagine it being any worse as far as traffic is concerned, but it's almost an impossible problem.
I don't know that I could give a better solution.
I always, I just got here in the morning and left my car, and I parked over here back in Nagel, very convenient.
And it was sometimes hard to get a parking place there if you didn't get there early, but I did, and I left late.
So I never had a parking problem, I just never used my car.
I walked everywhere, and that worked fine.
But yeah,
I believe it's a problem that I just don't see any solution to at all.
I don't really criticize what's been done.
Of course the decision was made not to allow cars to come into the center of the campus.
But that's kind of bad, because sometimes maybe a person's handicapped.
Or when I was moving things out of my office, that was terrible.
I had to make hundreds of trips to get to my car.
And fortunately, it was fairly close, but it was still hard.
It's hard to move things in and out.
And I know that's part of the everyday work of the university.
I only had to do it once.
That's a bad problem, traffic.
Did you and your colleagues think that...
The bus service was never very good either.
I considered riding those buses sometimes and sometimes they wouldn't let me on or, you know, didn't make me feel welcome on being on those buses.
And the pattern was that individual faculty members came in their car.
Absolutely.
In almost every car.
No carpool.
You never were a biker to and from campus.
No, I only took that up afterward.
Now I bike every day.
And when we moved where we did, one consideration was Don can walk to work, but there weren't more than a dozen times over those years that I actually did.